Because you took him to a track meet.
At a school which he didn't think that he had the
talent or the means to go to. And I've followed him
all these years and still keep in touch with him.
And then you think of the number of people he
changed. and all. So it's been just a lot of
instances. And there's been other kids that I have
spotted in high school. One from Giddings over
here that I told Cheryl about. He ended up playing
here. There's been several others that I... I got
one guy a scholarship at Iowa State through Jim
Myers the one year he was there. He ended up Going
there and doing well. It's been really a lot of fun.
Who were your favorite coaches or other athletic
department people here? Well, of course, Wally
has been, Wally Groff has been really good to me
over the years and has treated me very, very well. I
enjoyed Shelby. I enjoyed Tony Barone, and I got
along real well with Jackie. I was real, and I have a
real good relationship with RC, the track people,
because I've gotten real heavily into track these
past few years now. I announced track meets from
the middle of February until the middle of May. And
I guess one of the things I'm most proud of, I'm the
Baylor track announcer now. I have been now for
three years. I didn't know you had sold out. Gone to
Baylor. They called and asked, and so I go. Do you
still do track here? Yes. Oh, yes. Let's see. When
you became the track announcer, who was the coach?
Charlie Thomas. Charlie Thomas. I've only known
two track coaches here, Charlie Thomas and Ted
Nelson. Describe those two. Make believe
that somebody didn't know them. Charlie Thomas is
somebody that if you knew he was in a burning
building, you'd dash in to get him because you
wouldn't be sure he'd go out on his own. Charlie
doesn't really get very excited about anything.
But he was a good track coach. I disagreed with him
for a period of time when he was doing what the
majority of people were doing. The University of
Texas was doing it even worse than we were,
bringing in sub-quality academic students
running them for a semester and then run them off to
a junior college to get them re-eligible and and
going back we're never getting anywhere near any
kind of a degree program with them but that of
course is all turned around now we don't in fact we
don't have anybody going to junior college as i
know of now ted has worked real hard to try to build a
program he just has been unable to recruit
against, particularly against the University of
Texas overall, and against Baylor in middle
distance runners. You just can't get them. And
he's tried real hard. We've got some. But we're
doing a little better now. Dave Hartman, who we
brought in two years ago as a long-distance coach,
is doing real, real well at attracting athletes.
And so we're going to see some changes. Of all the
coaches and all the sports that you have known
here, to which one would you give the highest mark
given what they had to work with? Who did the best
job with what they had to work with, whether they
won championships or not?
It's hard to beat Tom Chandler's record. I don't
know. He didn't have that many guys go to the pros.
But they consistently won. Mark has done a good
job. He's gotten a lot of guys in the pros. I
think a couple of years, RC has done a real good job.
And a couple of years, Shelby did a real good job.
And again, I'm not going to ask the negative. Which
one do you think of all the coaches here had the most
spotless record in terms of their adhering to the
rules? Who followed the rules most closely?
people over there. I don't know those things.
Which of the coaches here would you have wanted to
coach one of your children and to have had an effect
on their life values? Mark Johnson.
Unquestionably. I was asked that question by the
Iowa State President Martin Jischke before he
hired Tim Floyd as the basketball coach because I
knew Tim real well at UTEP. He and his wife sit on our
P of the church. I knew him as a husband and a father
of a church-goer and an assistant coach. Thirty
minutes of questions. I'm standing...
The baseball, they've all been just really,
really super. And Jim Koch. First time I met Jim
Koch,
Fremont.
Describe the press box facilities in football
when you started. and when compare them with what
was there when you retired well the the format
isn't all that different bigger than what was only
it was only two levels instead of three
electronically yes i mean it was strung out the
same way there was two levels and then of course
this
for you
Thank you.
It bothers me that he has really not received the
credit. One time said, people here don't realize
what RC All right,
we were talking about athletics, and you're still
doing what in athletics? Football and track. And
so you've been doing football for how long? Well,
my first full year was the fall of 69 as announcer.
And my first year outdoors in the stadium was 77.
And track? Probably track announcing goes back to
about 73 or 74. Now, you did not overlap with C.K.
Astin. Well, I replaced him. All right, so were you
here when he... Yeah, I was doing a press box when
he... All right, describe some C.K. Esten
stories. I don't have any. You're kidding. No, I
had no contact with him at all. I'd see him and
that's it. You weren't there when he forgot to turn
the machine off? No. No, that was before I got
there. I remember hearing that. Yeah. No, that was
before my time. I've heard about it. CK didn't come
near me and I didn't go near him. And then the last
couple of years, he was really quite annoyed
because every time Jack Gammon had something he
wanted read, he'd let me go up and read it. Oh, and
that frustrated him? Yes. Yeah. Yeah, because
that was his territory.
Has anybody ever attempted to tell you how to do
something differently in a
Mike Caruso protected me in volleyball. They
wanted a change, and he said, well, get another
announcer, because he said, I'm not going to ask
him to change. Okay. Why did they want to change in
basketball and volleyball? This thing with PA
announcers now of hoopla is just, as far as I'm
concerned, is just destroying sports. I don't see
any place for it, and it's even creeping into
football now. The guy at Kansas State is one of the
worst. But it's getting into football. I'm
fearful that they're coming to tell me that they
want something different, but hopefully not.
Because I just think I still believe in fairness in
athletics. The guy with the public address
system,
he's got the . He's the
. And I just don't think that that's equal and fair.
Now, the National Football League has some real
strong . They're not
holding you.
uh... credit
uh...
bucket and uh... that he was all british
uh... it uh...
Fred
has an encyclopedia of information. I don't know
how anybody can research the way he does. He's got
stacks and stacks. He knows every athlete that's
playing and what they did since they started
playing Little League. I, for some reason or
other, think that when you're at a college event,
then what they achieved in high school is no longer
of value. But at track meets particularly, he goes
down every high school meet that they ran in. And of
course, there's a lot of dead time at track meets,
but it's not all bad. Do you have any ideal role
model announcers from either the past or the
present? The only man that I ever listened to that I
really tried to follow was an old man who did the
Chicago Cubs for years and years and years named
Pat Piper. And he sat on a chair down behind home
plate. He didn't even sit in the press box. And all
he did was introduce the batter and then change the
pitchers, and that's it. And that's pretty much
what I've tried to do. And Dave South changed me, oh
gosh, I suppose it's five years ago now. When they
built that new scoreboard, they paid good money.
So advertisers paid good money for that. And Dave
said, we want them to have to look at the
scoreboard. So he said, just tell who carried the
ball, who made the tackle, and that's it. Don't
tell the yardage or anything unless they make over
10 yards and go. And don't need to tell them it's
first down. They can look at the scoreboard and
tell it's first down. So I cut back a lot of what I've
done, and I like it. You know, you get tired of
listening to people after a while. And so many
times they're late. And so if you just tell who's
carrying the ball, who made the tackle, then get
off and wait for the next play. Substitutions, you
can't keep up with them. There's no point in
trying. Back in the days when you had limited
substitution or unlimited, or really no
substitute at all, if there was a substitute, you
could get him in the game. I remember seeing the
last game that Niall Kinnick played at the
University of Iowa in 1939. Iowa used 13 players
that day. All right, now, this was your avocation,
your enjoyment routine. Let's go back to
veterinary medicine. Describe how your task,
your assignment, change if it did in all the years
you were a faculty member? Once I got into
diagnostic pathology, I found a home. I'm a great
why man. You never do know why, but you always wish
you did. And so I found it a challenge to, and very
interesting to see the changes and to try to
interpret the changes that you see. And it was
really a, really a, and plus it has such a broader
spectrum.
When you treat same
thing every day. You began this diagnostic in the
70s? When did you say? In 65 when I came here. I got
into diagnostic. And of course, I had done I
mean, again, or not fit to eat based on what you see
and that I got a real tremendous exposure to
disease, the changes disease can produce in
animals and then having to decide whether that
change could be removed just by excoriation or
whether it was affecting the entire carcass. And I
really found it to be exciting. And this was for all
sorts of animals? Well, in meat inspection, I
started out in poultry with turkeys and chickens,
and then I switched to cattle and sheep. and hogs.
And then when I got here in veterinary school and
also in Auburn as well, then you're doing the whole
thing, a whole range of small animals, various
breeds of small animals, cattle. We didn't have a
lot of exotic animals come through postmortem
when I was there, but we'd have some. Now this was a
formal course for fourth year students? Pretty
much so, yes. Here, yes. normally how many
students would be in each class? Well, when you get
down to the clinical years now, in post-mortem, of
course, I hadn't worked in post-mortem since 75. I
went to clinical pathology in 75. But we would have
between six and eight in a group. Would they
rotate? Did you have all the members in the class in
the semester? Yes. And describe what your week
routine in those classes would be. Were you there
all day, every day? This
would be about 72 or 73. Bridges switched me over to
teaching the pathology course to the seniors in
biomedical science. And this was a laboratory
course that had, when we first started, it had six
hours of lab, one hour of lecture, and then we added
another hour of lecture. So it was six hours of lab,
two hours of lecture a week. And I had two sections.
So this filled up my time pretty well. But I would
still spend one day a week in the diagnostics lab
over in the small animal clinic, above the small
animal clinic. working over there. But I had 12
hours of laboratory a week in class, plus two hours
of lecture, and this really kept me busy. describe
those biomedical science students? This is
probably an Al Price, I think everybody's
forgotten the fact that Al Price started this. And
when he first started it, he started it to produce
A whole bunch of junior started veterinary
assistant programs and the Texas in Waco started
one. And they were much easier to get into and much
easier to get out of than what the four-year degree
program here was. And what has evolved though now
here on the campus is that it is essentially the
pre-medical study curriculum for all areas of
medicine. Dentistry, medicine, human medicine,
podiatry,
They've got now nearly 2,000 majors in the
biomedical science program. It is just awesome.
Are they good students? Yes, yes. They tend to go
somewhere in the medical field and know going in
that academically they even start. Urban or rural
in background? Oh, mostly urban. Mostly urban
now. I
think I can best sum that up, and I can't think of the
man's last name. I can't even think of his first
name now. The guy, ex-CIA director, not CIA
director, an ex-CIA agent. Yes, sir. Jim Wilson.
Spoke to our Methodist church yesterday. I think
CIA recruits more students from Texas A&M than any
other place in the country. because of the quality
that they are. They're the type of people that they
can trust and can use. And I feel pretty much that
that typifies our premedical people as well.
Nothing other than that they were able to complete
the curriculum and are now successful.
Scott, who's a Hispanic boy named Jaime Sanchez
from out in West Texas somewhere, an MCAT score
high enough to get into any medical school, but he
got into the
real well. I don't know where Jaime is now, but he
just did real well. The three years that George
Shelton let me be chairman of the selection
committee in the veterinary school, I got a chance
to introduce what I believe is the method of choice
for selecting anybody for that matter is that you
take all the information that they give you as far
as their prerequisites and everything is
concerned and then you start picking them on the
number from the top down I want this one I want this
one I want this one and when you get your quota
filled You tell the rest of them, I ran out of space.
You don't tell them why you ran out of space or
anything else. You have just selected people in
which you believe they will do what you want them to
do in the way you want it done. And when you get
through with that number, you have to quit. What
would be the key factors in your rankings of those
students?
I'm sorry? Overall interest in life. Why am I here?
What do I want to do? What do I hope to do? What have I
done? What have I done to make myself better? How do
you quantify that? Brown University, I read this
thing on Brown University several years ago, that
Brown University rejects more students. At that
time, they rejected more students with SAT
scores.